[Music]
thomas
newt and frypan are the last of the free
gladers
immune to the flare virus that has
ravaged the world's population
them and the right arm resistance
conduct a rescue operation where they
retrieve other immunes
from a train which is owned by wckd also
pronounced wicked
an organization responsible for
capturing and experimenting on immune
children
they discover that minnow the remaining
glader friend whom wicked had captured
was not on that train which is headed to
the last city wicked's base of
operations against the orders of vince
leader of the right arm the three leave
their camp to rescue minnow who is being
tortured by wicked in hopes of
developing a cure for the virus
heading for the last city the group is
attacked by cranks humans infected with
the flare
however they are saved by jorge and
brenda who join them the group makes it
to the wall of the last city which
protects the city from cranks
outside the wall people are rallying in
protest to be let into the city
when wicked opens fire at the protesters
the group is captured by a contingent of
masked men and are taken to a hideout
one of the masked men is revealed to be
gali who survived the minnows attack
galley takes them to see lawrence a
rebellion leader for those outside the
walls
who helps them enter the last city
through a secret entrance galley leads
thomas and newt through to the city
and spotting teresa galli tells thomas
that he can get them into wicked
headquarters newt then confides to
thomas that he is infected
promising to cure him the three capture
teresa thomas newt and gally
escort teresa inside wicked headquarters
and toward the location of the immunes
galley looks after the immune children
and stays to find a serum that slows the
flare
while thomas newt and teresa go to find
minnow they are discovered and chased by
jansen
teresa lets them escape to find minnow
before rushing to do a blood test on
thomas's blood
which she obtained when removing
trackers from the gladers having
delivered the immune children
and the serum to brenda galli returns to
wicked headquarters to find thomas
brenda is forced to flee with the immune
children to avoid capture
thomas and newt reunite with minnow in
the medical wing teresa discovers that
thomas's blood can cure the flare
she shares her discovery with wicked's
leader eva page both agreeing that they
must find thomas
brenda and the immune children escape
wicked with frypan's help
meanwhile lawrence rallies his rebels
outside the city before blowing a hole
in the city wall
sacrificing himself to allow his allies
and the affected people to storm the
city
galley finds thomas minnow and newt newt
sending minnow and gally ahead to get
the serum from brenda
gives thomas a pendant before passing
out teresa transmits her voice
throughout the city
telling thomas that his blood can save
newt if he will only return to wicked
newt nearly consumed by the flare
regains consciousness and attacks thomas
while begging thomas to kill him when
thomas will not
newt left with no other options stabs
himself thomas makes his way back to
wicked and confronts ava
however she is killed by jansen who is
infected by the flare janssen knocks
thomas out and drags him to a lab where
theresa is ready to extract his blood
however he reveals that he is only truly
interested in curing himself and others
that he feels are worthy which results
in teresa turning on him
after a fight jansen is killed allowing
thomas and teresa to escape to the
rooftop where teresa gives thomas a vial
with the cure
their allies suddenly appear in an
aircraft thomas makes it aboard but
teresa dies when the headquarters
collapses on itself
the group reunites with the rest of the
immunes and the right arm escaping to a
safe haven where the remaining
population can live in safety
there thomas discovers that the pendant
newt gave him had a note in it
still traumatized by his friend's deaths
he reads the note in which newt tells
him to look after everyone